What is OSINT?
Open source intelligence or OSINT, is often utilized by hackers and red teams,
to leverage public data while conducting investigations, often using database searches.

OSINT stands for open source intelligence and refers to the practice of collecting data from free sources 
that are available to the general public. As information becomes more available from a vast number of sources, 
skilled researchers can often find nearly any type of data they’re looking for, provided they know where to look. 
These sources include both public and private databases that hackers, journalists, spies, and ordinary people 
all use to do the work of collecting information every day.

Much of this information simply isn’t able to be retrieved through search engines and requires knowledge
of where the right database is located to get the right answers. Fortunately, there are a multitude of tools 
that both beginners and seasoned investigators can take advantage of to use OSINT sources while conducting research.

What Should I Do for OSINT to Protect My Organization?

Every organization creates data, and much of this data may be public if it’s produced or recorded by a local or state government.
Aside from business data, technical data from registration or development of websites or products can expose information about
the internal workings of an organization that might otherwise be impossible to find.

The first thing to know about OSINT is that it cuts both ways, and the same data used to learn about a competitor can 
also be used to infer information about your company or organization. It can be incredibly rewarding to discover what
information about you might be more public than you expect and understand how an outsider could know internal details
about your organization that make it easier to attack.
How Do I Conduct an OSINT Investigation?

An OSINT investigation starts with answering an answerable question. Because there is no shortage of data out there, 
it’s easy to get lost in all the noise if what you’re looking for isn’t clear and answerable in the first place. 
An example of this might be questioning “is New York safer than Los Angeles?” versus “Have reports of police misconduct 
increased in Los Angeles county since 1999?” One question calls for an opinion and is difficult to answer,
where the second can be easily answered by finding the right record holder.

After establishing the question to answer, the next step is to identify the most likely owner of the best quality data.
Primary source information like government or corporate data are the best sources, followed by information created by 
trade-based organizations or non-governmental agencies (NGO’s) related to the industry or trade your question is related to. 
Finally, third-party aggregators of data can provide useful links back to a primary source of data, although this “tertiary” 
data cannot be used as evidence. 

Generally, an investigation will develop an understanding of a subject by asking answerable questions and using the 
best quality answers to paint a picture. While third-party reports like a newspaper quoting another source are useful,
it’s important to be critical of the sources you find during an OSINT investigation. Because there is so much information, 
much of it inaccurate or published by unreliable sources, OSINT researchers must be extremely critical of the sources of data 
used, preferring only to use verified primary source data to draw conclusions. 
OSINT Frameworks & Tools

Because OSINT covers so many different types of data, there are many different types of investigations that can be conducted. 
This ranges from social media investigations using free tools to comb through vast amounts of Tweets, to geospatial 
investigations using satellite imagery to locate where photos were taken. 

There are many different resources for investigators looking for more OSINT tools, including the osintframework.com website
which lists a huge number of data sources for different types of OSINT investigations. There are also many fantastic free OSINT
tools on Github, many of them curated into this “Awesome-OSINT” list.

OSINT Frameworks & Tools

Because OSINT covers so many different types of data, there are many different types of investigations that can be conducted.
This ranges from social media investigations using free tools to comb through vast amounts of Tweets,
to geospatial investigations using satellite imagery to locate where photos were taken. 

There are many different resources for investigators looking for more OSINT tools, 
including the osintframework.com website which lists a huge number of data sources for different types of OSINT investigations.

What OSINT Techniques Are There?

OSINT tactics can be divided into active and passive techniques, with active tactics involving some sort of actual contact
with the target, and passive tactics avoiding any contact with the target. Active techniques always involve some small risk
of the target detecting you are investigating them, whereas passive tactics usually involve querying a database maintained 
by someone else, and usually do not involve any risk of being detected.

How Does OSINT Relate to SOCMINT & HUMINT?

HUMINT, or human intelligence, is old-school intelligence collection done using human sources to collect information.
With the explosion of data available to OSINT investigators, HUMINT has been supercharged by the ability to learn nearly 
everything about the person you need to interview before you even meet them. This gives the investigator a huge advantage
when interviewing a source, and can make HUMINT 
a natural and extremely valuable add-on to any OSINT investigation.

OSINT is the secret power behind many HUMINT collection wins, providing the context to get a person to do something
they’re not supposed to do. Often with the right OSINT information, it’s possible to get someone who is aware they hold 
sensitive information to either grant you access because they think they are supposed to, or because they think you already 
know the information they have access to.

By taking advantage of the information about a company’s employees on social media as well as internal policies leaked by 
documents easily found through passive search techniques, it’s simple to understand who has access to the information an 
investigator needs. This can cut down the time needed to get answers substantially by getting the exact right answer from
the right source earlier. 
How Do I Find OSINT on Phone Numbers?

Phone numbers are often linked to individuals through phone books, social media accounts, and data leaked by businesses 
who have worked with someone before. When phone numbers turn up in an OSINT investigation, third-party aggregators like
www.opencnam.com, thatsthem.com, and truecaller.com can begin matching the number to businesses or people.

Once you have an initial match, you’ll want to pull details like addresses, names, and social media names to expand the
scope of your discovery to other web accounts or documents related to your target. Matching each of these details to even
more information is often how a phone number can lead to a business license or other more concrete details.
How Do I Find OSINT on Names?

Names often appear in documents related to business filings, so the best quality results for name searches related to
business owners or powerful people will often be on websites like lilsis.org or OpenCorporates. For normal people, 
third party aggregators will often attempt to stitch together lots of information about people by name, 
especially if you know the general area they live in.

While third-party aggregators can’t be used as answers to your investigation, they often point to better sources of data. 
To start an investigation, sources like pipl.com, beenverified.com, and peekyou.com can get you started, but should only be 
used to point to other accounts or searchable details like past addresses or phone numbers.
How Do I Find OSINT on Businesses?

Businesses are some of the easiest entities to find information on, as they need to register a lot of paperwork with public
entities to exist. This paperwork is often entirely public and searchable, giving investigators a trove of information full
of details which help to expand an investigation in the early stages. 

To get started, it’s best to search the secretary of state website of whichever state a particular organization does
business in. This should provide a starting point of data, but can often be expanded on by searching additional states as well.
Because there are tax and legal incentives to register in certain states in the US, it’s often worthwhile to check the secretary 
of state databases in Nevada, Delaware, California, and Wyoming as well.
