Different OSINT tools used to conduct security threat assessments and investigations.

    Using UrlScan.io to scan for malicious URLs.
    Urlscan.io is a free service developed to assist in scanning and analysing
    websites. It is used to automate the process of browsing and crawling 
    through websites to record activities and interactions.
    When a URL is submitted, the information recorded includes the 
    domains and IP addresses contacted, resources requested from the domains,
    a snapshot of the web page, technologies utilised and other metadata about 
    the website.

    Using Abuse.ch to track malware and botnet indicators.

    Abuse.ch is a research project hosted by the Institue for Cybersecurity
    and Engineering at the Bern University of Applied Sciences in Switzerland.
    It was developed to identify and track malware and botnets through several 
    operational platforms developed under the project. These platforms are:

    Malware Bazaar:  A resource for sharing malware samples.
    Feodo Tracker:  A resource used to track botnet command and control (C2)
    infrastructure linked with Emotet, Dridex and TrickBot.
    SSL Blacklist:  A resource for collecting and providing a blocklist for 
    malicious SSL certificates and JA3/JA3s fingerprints.
    URL Haus:  A resource for sharing malware distribution sites.
    Threat Fox:  A resource for sharing indicators of compromise (IOCs).

    Investigate phishing emails using PhishTool

    PhishTool seeks to elevate the perception of phishing as a severe form of attack and provide a responsive means of email security. Through email analysis, security analysts can uncover email IOCs, prevent breaches and provide forensic reports that could be used in phishing containment and training engagements.

    PhishTool has two accessible versions: Community and Enterprise. We shall mainly focus on the Community version and the core features in this task. Sign up for an account via this link to use the tool.

    The core features include:

    Perform email analysis: PhishTool retrieves metadata from phishing emails and provides analysts with the relevant explanations and capabilities to follow the email’s actions, attachments, and URLs to triage the situation.
    Heuristic intelligence: OSINT is baked into the tool to provide analysts with the intelligence needed to stay ahead of persistent attacks and understand what TTPs were used to evade security controls and allow the adversary to social engineer a target.
    Classification and reporting: Phishing email classifications are conducted to allow analysts to take action quickly. Additionally, reports can be generated to provide a forensic record that can be shared.

    Additional features are available on the Enterprise version:

    Manage user-reported phishing events.
    Report phishing email findings back to users and keep them engaged in the process.
    Email stack integration with Microsoft 365 and Google Workspace.

    Using Cisco's Talos Intelligence platform for intel gathering.

    
